# National-Park_Recommendation

**Introduction**

The United States National Park Service (NPS) was founded in 1916 through an act of Congress that was signed by President Woodrow Wilson. The NPS was built to “conserve the scenery and the natural and historic objects and the wildlife therein and…leave them unimpaired for the enjoyment of future generations.” The NPS now maintains and safeguards over 400 areas across the United States and its territories. These areas include “national parks, monuments, battlefields, military parks, historical parks, historic sites, lakeshores, seashores, recreation areas, scenic rivers and trails, and the White House.” The focus of this project was on the National Parks that are overseen by the NPS. National Parks are a specific group of parks amongst all those that the NPS takes care of. They are areas of land that are designated by the United States Congress as federally protected. These areas are chosen based upon the natural landscapes, ecosystems, geological features, and recreational activities in an area. National Parks are generally larger and contain a greater variety of attractions compared to the other areas under the NPS. There are currently 63 National Parks.
The purpose of this project was to build a recommendation system for these 63 National Parks to give potential visitors an easier way to choose which park they would like to visit. The project was inspired by my paternal grandparents who are currently working towards visiting every one of the National Parks in the contiguous 48 states. I hope that this recommendation system will inspire new people to visit the National Parks to appreciate their natural beauty.
To build this recommendation system, I utilized the Shiny package in R. R is a “language and environment for statistical computing and graphics.” It is free software that is easy to use to run statistical analysis and create professional data visualizations. The Shiny package is an extension onto this software that is also free. It helps users create interactive webpages using the power of R. Shiny also presents a way for R users to present their data in a way that is both interactive and easily accessible. A webpage created with this package is called a Shiny App. These webpages, or apps, can be hosted online for public use.
This project is based on a data set that was made specifically for this project. It includes a series of data points that were collected for each of the 63 national parks. These data points include the following information for each park: name, state it is in, year established, latitude and longitude, average yearly precipitation, average high and low temperature for each month, entry fee, number of visitors in 2020, acreage, the number of unique species of amphibians, mammals, birds, fish, and reptiles, and whether or not the park has WIFI, campgrounds, glaciers, sand dunes, mountains, volcanic activity, geothermal sites, caves/karsts, rock formations, wetlands, diving, a lodge, is a wetland, has an arctic climate, or has ocean access. The data also included if a park had front country, backcountry, and/or off trail hiking opportunities as well as the ways in which a person could enter a park (Train, Plane, Boat, or Vehicle). Finally, the URL for each parks individual site on the NPS website was included in the data set. The data was mainly collected directly from the NPS website, nps.gov, or freely accessible through various sources that are cited in the references section below. The purpose of compiling this data set was to make information, that may be difficult or complicated to find, more accessible to an average traveler.
 
**Methodology**

The project was created entirely within an R Shiny App. It can be broken down into two parts: the recommendation system and an informational section. The recommendation system tab utilizes reactive Shiny variables to filter the National Parks based on a user’s inputted preferences. This will then give the user a series of National Parks that fit within their preferences that they can do further research on to visit. The informational section then provides a small amount of information on each of the National Parks and the activities/major landmarks that make that park unique. This tab is intended for users that do not need a recommendation on a park because they already have one in mind but do need access to more information.
The Shiny App uses an imported CSS file to maintain the aesthetics and general theme of the page. There is also inline CSS/HTML code throughout the R Shiny App to control particular fonts, colors, and workability of certain characteristics. The R Shiny App utilizes the navbar page function to create the tab system, the fluidPage() function combined with fluidRow() and column() in order to organize the material on each tab, leaflet to render the map that showcases the national parks in the recommendation system, and shinyalert() to create an alert system if no national parks match a user’s preferences. The reactive variables in this Shiny App are sliderInput(), selectInput(), checkboxGroupInput,() and textInput(). Furthermore, the leaflet icons for the parks and a person’s home were created using the makeIcon() function. The imported CSS file was used to create the containers and overlays for the informational tab using .container: hover .overlay.

The packages currently in use are:
library(shiny)
library(shinyWidgets)
library(maps)
library(mapproj)
library(leaflet)
library(dplyr)
library(htmltools)
library(shinythemes)
library(bslib)
library(magrittr)
library(ggmap)
library(tmaptools)
library(shinyalert)

Prior to the completion of this project, I had no exposure to the Shiny package. Because of this, the knowledge used to create and work the Shiny App was obtained from other sources. The main way was by looking at pieces of the code running the examples on the “Gallery” Page of the Shiny for R studio website, specifically the COVID-19 Tracker and SuperZip examples. Many of the small issues that I encountered were solved by looking at the answered questions in the community pages of stack overflow and github. 
